This document gives the general regulations applicable to all btech programs. Specific requirements for a particular btech program (example btech in cse) are specified in regulations for program (example btech 
While the Senate is the main statutory body for all academic matters, the Undergraduate Committee (UGC), a standing committee of Senate, shall oversee matters related to the undergraduate programs. the Undergraduate Committee (UGC), a standing committee of Senate shall be appointed by the Senate and shall have a term of two years. the Undergraduate Committee (UGC), a standing committee of Senate will consist of Faculty members and members of the Senate. In addition, there will be at least one student representative, who will be a full time UG student of the Institute. 
Any condition arising in the btech program and not covered in the regulations shall be referred to the UG committee which may refer it to the Senate. 
doaa (DOAA) is the main functionary who ensures the smooth functioning of the academic programs as approved by the academic Senate, executes the policies and decisions of the Senate and UGC and PGC. doaa (DOAA)’s office receives, processes and maintains all records relating to the undergraduate programs including curricula, courses offered, academic calendar, registration, leave, examinations, grades and award of degrees and prizes; disseminates information and issues orders pertaining to all academic matters; processes requests from students regarding academic matters. 
There are two regular semesters and one summer term in a year. Most courses are taught in the regular semesters. The semester timeline shall be defined in the academic calendar and will be broadly the following. 
Starts around August 1 and ends around the last week of November. 
Starts around January 2 and ends around the last week of April. 
Starts around the middle of May and ends around the middle of July. 
A semester is of about four months in duration with 13 weeks of teaching, a mid- semester recess, a mid-semester examination, and an end-semester examination. Generally the last 10 days in mid-semester are reserved for the end-semester examination, presentations, demos, etc. The summer term is about half the duration of the regular semesters, and the courses taught run at a faster pace to complete in duration of the summer term. 
The academic calendar, published every year or semester, specifies the dates for major academic activities like registration, examinations, mid-semester recess, etc., will be prepared and published by DOAA, and tabled in the Senate. 
The total number of seats will be as decided by the Board of Governors and will be announced every year in the admission prospectus. No change in The total number of seats will be done after the merit list for admission has been announced. the Board of Governors may also decide to have a special supernumerary quota for foreign students. 
Admission to the undergraduate program at IIIT-Delhi is based on criteria which use scores from entrance test(s), class XII, and other competitions. Details about the admission criteria and entrance test(s) whose scores are to be used, are announced through the admission prospectus each year. The minimum eligibility criteria for applying is that a candidate must have secured 80 percent or more marks in the aggregate and 80% or more in Mathematics in class XII from CBSE or ICSE or IB board or equivalent is eligible for applying to IIIT-Delhi. Relaxation is given for category students, as specified in the prospectus. Additional requirements for minimum eligibility for specific programs are also as specified in the prospectus. Candidates whose program had been terminated at any other university or institute on disciplinary grounds are not eligible for admission at IIIT-Delhi. 
The current reservation policy (decided by the Board of Governors) of the Institute largely reflects the policy of Delhi Government. Currently, 85% of the seats are reserved for Delhi Government candidates (i.e. those who have completed class XII from a school or college or institute located in Delhi Government), and 15% for outside Delhi Government candidates. Category-wise reservation is provided within these limits, as explained in the prospectus for each year. 
During counseling, based on the merit list, a candidate will be invited to join the institute. A candidate will be admitted if A candidate or A candidate presents all original documents for verification of the information provided in the admission form and he or she pays the required fee, and A candidate or A candidate completes the admission formalities. 
Those candidates unable to show the proof of fulfilling the eligibility criteria may be given a provisional admission subject to Those candidates unable to show the proof of fulfilling the eligibility criteria presenting such a proof by the following September 30th. 
The admission of a candidate to the undergraduate program may be cancelled if any material information provided is found to be incorrect, a candidate to the undergraduate program or a candidate to the undergraduate program does not pay the fee by the given date, or does not report on the announced day for registration. The Institute reserves the right to extend the date of reporting and date of depositing fee if a case is found to be genuine. 
The admission of a student may be cancelled by the Senate even at a later date if the Senate is found that a student had supplied some false information or suppressed any relevant information while seeking admission. 
Some seats may be reserved for foreign students. These are usually supernumerary, and admission for such seats is handled separately. The number of seats and the process for application and admission are described in each year’s prospectus. 
A non-degree student is a student registered for a degree in a recognized university or  institute in India or abroad and who is officially sponsored by that Institute or university to complete part of the academic requirements at IIIT-Delhi. Such students may do courses or projects in IIIT-Delhi, and will be given transcripts for the academic work carried out at IIIT-Delhi. During Such students stay at IIIT-Delhi, such students will also be governed by all academic and disciplinary rules of IIIT-Delhi. Credits earned by a non-degree student at IIIT-Delhi cannot be applied towards any degree or diploma offered by IIIT-Delhi at any time. The admission to non-degree status is decided on a case to case basis. The applications are received by the DOAA. 
Every semester the Institute offers some courses, taught by faculty appointed by it. 
A course may be of 4, 2, or 1 credit. A registered student who passes a course earns the credits assigned for A course. 
The course will have 3 hours of lectures per week, with a total of about 39 hours of lectures (13 weeks). In addition, one hour of interaction per week is expected, which may be in form of structured tutorials. There may also be labs in The course. 
The course will have 1.5 hours of lectures per week for the whole semester, or 3 hours of lectures per week for half the semester. The total lectures hours will be about 20. Intensive short-term courses of 2 credits are also possible, though it is expected that the duration of such a course will be no less than 3 weeks. A 2-credit course may or may not have tutorials and labs. 
The course is likely to be run as a short course on a very specialized topic. Such courses may also be run during vacations. A 1-credit course will have a total of about 10 hours of lecture over a period of, generally, not less than 2 weeks. 
Certain courses such as SelfGrowth (SG), Community Work (CW), may be taken for varying number of credits on case to case basis. 
While taking courses in the Institute is the primary means for a student to earn credits, there may be other approved provisions for earning credit through projects, studying in other Institutions and transferring credits, etc. Such provisions will be provided in these or other regulations. 
IIIT-Delhi has evolved a system for allowing students to take online courses. Students can take advantage of the increasing amount of such courses made available by reputed universities across the world to complement the courses offered in the institute. 
A btech student is allowed to register for online courses (OC) as regular courses (and not in the category of Independent Project (IP) or Independent Study (IS) or Undergraduate Research (UR) or btech Project (BTP)). 
The limit one course in a semester for OC means that no more than 4 credits of OC can be taken in a semester. 
A student can take upto 8 credits of Online Courses in A student btech degree. 
At the beginning of each semester, a student shall register for the courses a student or she wishes to take in that semester. A student shall normally be allowed to register for a course only if A student or she has passed all the necessary pre-requisites for a course. 
Registration is compulsory for all students who are not on leave of absence, and is the sole responsibility of the student and must be completed before the last date of registration. Failure to register may lead to termination of the student for that semester. 
Registration will generally be done just before the start of classes in a semester. Pre- registration for a semester can be done toward the end of the previous semester. Students will be informed about these dates and other details every semester. 
Registration process has two parts: academic and administrative, and both of two parts: academic and administrative must be completed in order to complete the registration process. Academic registration includes specifying the courses that the student wishes to do in the semester and getting the necessary approvals. Students can seek advice from Advisors nominated for the purpose by the DOAA. Administrative part includes paying all dues to the Institute. 
Late registration is permitted as per academic calendar on the payment of late registration fee. late registration fee may be waived if the delay is due to an academic activity undertaken with prior permission. The number of days missed due to late arrival shall be treated as leave of absence. A fee for late academic registration may be imposed. 
Pre-registration is necessary part of the academic registration for non-first semester students. In case a student fails to do pre-registration of courses, a penalty may be imposed if a student does not register a student or a student preference within the stipulated period. 
A student can change the courses that A student or A student does in a semester by adding and dropping courses till the last date for add or drop as specified in the academic calendar. In addition, a student can withdraw from at most one elective course up to the last date specified in the academic calendar, which will normally be after the mid-semester examination. During the summer term, a student may be permitted to drop one course by the late drop date. 
A student has a backlog if A student or A student has not taken or has taken but failed in course(s) of previous semester(s). The registration of such a student must be approved by the DOAA who will advise the student. Generally, the student should register in a manner that the student or A student can clear as many backlog courses as are available. 
A student is solely responsible to ensure that all conditions for proper registration are satisfied, and there are no timetable clashes. proper registration may be cancelled by the DOAA for a course if any irregularity is found at a later stage. A student’s registration for the semester may be cancelled as part of disciplinary action. Leave beyond permissible limits may also result in cancellation of registration for a semester. 
Registering in the summer term is optional. A student may register for up to 6 credits of courses that are offered during the summer term (inclusive of SG or CW credits). Out of to 6 credits of courses that are offered during the summer term (inclusive of SG or CW credits), for students who have completed the 2nd year of to 6 credits of courses that are offered during the summer term (inclusive of SG or CW credits) btech program, may be allowed to take up to 4 credits for IP or IS or UR or BTP. An exception may be made for the students of the graduating batch, who may be allowed to take up to 8 credits. The registration shall be done just before the start of the term. There will not be any late registration in the summer term and a student shall not be allowed to add a course after registration. 
In general, students will take courses as per the program. Normal load for the first and second year students is 16-20 credits and for the third and fourth year students is 16-22 credits. 
When a student registers for more credits than the stipulated normal load, it is called the overload. First year students cannot take any overload. Second year students having a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of up to 2 additional credits over 20 credits. Third and fourth year students having a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of up to 2 additional credits over 22 credits. 
When the student registers for less than 16 credits in a semester, the student is called the underload. A student may be allowed, with permission of the DOAA an underload of a maximum of 4 credits below 16 credits. 
Students under academic warning may not be permitted any overload. Such students may be advised by DOAA to take an underload. 
Students can avail underload below 12 credits (as low as 4 credits) only in one semester during Students entire btech program. For this, prior permission is required to be taken before the last date of add or drop of that particular semester. Students wanting to avail internship (industrial, academic, research, etc.) without taking semester leave can do so with prior approval of the DOAA in only one semester of Students wanting to avail internship (industrial, academic, research, etc.) without taking semester leave degree program. Such request needs to be placed at least two days before the last date of add or drop. Students approved for such internship are required to register for 4 credits of only IP or IS or UR or BTP or OC courses in this semester. Students will not be allowed to do any in-class course during the internship period. Further, the underload of as low as 4 credits can be availed by ECE, CSAM and CSSS students in any semester of the 3rd and 4th year, while CSE, CSD and CSB students can do so only in the 8th Semester. 
Each course is conducted by the Instructor-in-charge with the assistance of tutors and or or teaching assistants. the Instructor-in-charge is responsible for conducting the lectures, tutorials, and labs, holding the tests and examinations, evaluating the performance of the students, awarding grades at the end of the semester or summer term, and transmitting the grades to the DOAA’s office within the prescribed time limit. 
The Institute follows a system of continuous evaluation, in which, during a course, various instruments like tests, exams, assignments, projects, etc., are given by the instructor to assess the learning of students and assign grades. All evaluations are the responsibility of the instructor in-charge of the course. The two main exams  the mid- semester exam and the end-semester exam  shall normally be scheduled as per the academic calendar while the schedule of the rest will be decided by the instructor. For 1 or 2 credit courses, the instructor will decide the evaluation criteria and the schedule of tests and exams. 
If a student, for valid reasons such as illness, etc., fails to appear in the end-semester examination in one or more course(s), a student or she may make a request to the instructor and the academic office for a make-up examination within two days of the date of the scheduled examination. Such a request must, however, be supported by proper documentary evidence for justifying the request. For medical reasons, only two medical applications including mid-semester and end-semester would be accepted for make-up examinations during the entire duration of the btech degree completion. Further, for the grant of medical leave, students are required to upload the medical certificate within five working days from the date of the scheduled examination. The Institute reserves the right to get the medical certificate verified from the Institute Doctor. Finally, the request for make-up examination will be approved by the DOAA. 
One of the letter grades given in the following table shall be awarded to a student reflecting his or her overall performance in a course. Each letter grade carries certain points as given in the table, and these points are used in the computation of the SGPA or CGPA as explained later. 
In the academic courses, the final grades awarded are A to F (A+ is a grade with same points as A, and is there to honor excellence). 
An I (Incomplete) grade may be awarded in cases when all the requirements for a course are not met by the student at the time of submission of grades and it essentially reflects as an incomplete status in the Evaluation Resource Planning (ERP) system. For all courses including project-based courses, An I (Incomplete) grade must be converted to a regular grade within one month of the end of the current term (i.e., the moderation date). For courses other than project  or  independent study, incomplete grade I is meant primarily for medical reasons. All unconverted I grades are automatically converted to F grade after the grade conversion deadline, which is one month after the moderation date. 
In certain courses, such as Online Courses (OC, Self-Growth (SG and Community Work (CW courses, only S or X grade is awarded. 
The F and X grades are fail grades and the student shall be required to repeat the course. If the course is a compulsory course, the student shall repeat the same course in another semester or summer when the course is offered. In the case of an elective or optional course, the student can replace the course by another elective course. 
For at most one compulsory (core) course, after getting an F twice in the course, a student may be allowed to replace it by an elective course of the respective discipline with the prior approval from DOAA. 
An F and X grade obtained in any course shall be reflected in the grade sheet. However, when the course is replaced or repeated, the new grade will be used for computation of the CGPA. The pass grade for the respective course will count towards the SGPA of the semester in which the course is passed and not in the semester where F’ grade was awarded. F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of the CGPA, although F’ grade is counted in the calculation of SGPA. 
As mentioned in Ordinances, a letter grade, once awarded, shall not be changed unless the request is made by the Instructor-in-Charge of the course and is approved by the Chairman, Senate. Any such request for change of grade must, however, be made within four weeks of the start of the next semester with all relevant records and justification. 
For some important core courses, refresher modules may be offered during vacations for students’ benefit. Based on students’ performance in the refresher module, only students with F or D grade may be allowed at most half the letter grade improvement (i.e. improvement from F to D or D to C- -), although any student can attend. Decision regarding whether these modules are to be offered during vacation and whether these modules may be used for grade enhancement will be taken every year. As with a grade change, this grade improvement will be approved and authorized by Chairman, Senate. 
Repeat of a course completed with pass grade may be allowed, but only the best Grade in that course will be counted for CGPA computation. Also, all attempts in that course will be recorded in the respective semesters’ transcripts and the repeat course will not be permitted for late drop after mid-semester examination. For repeating a course, a student has to simply register on ERP during the course registration period. 
The semester performance is indicated by a Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) which is a weighted sum of all the points earned in the courses done in a semester. The SGPA is given for each semester and is computed using the following formula. The SGPA (u1.w1 + u2.w2 +  + un.wn)  or  (u1 + u2 +  + un) where ui is the number of credits for the course i and wi is the points earned through the letter grade in that course, and n is the number of courses taken in the semester. While doing the computation of SGPA, the course or thesis credits with grades S and X are ignored. 
The overall performance is indicated by a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is computed in the same manner as the computation of SGPA but for all the courses done in the program. 
F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, however, F’ grade is counted in the calculation of SGPA. 
The grades in courses will be announced over ERP at the end of every semester. A grade report for the semester may be issued to a student after the semester upon request. A grade report for the semester may be withheld if a student has not paid the fees or other dues, has a disciplinary case pending against a student or her, has not completed other formalities, or for any other pertinent reason. 
Students may be permitted to do academic work and courses in places of repute outside IIIT-Delhi and may be allowed to spend up to 2 semesters at another University. The maximum credit transfer allowed is 40 credits over the entire btech program (with a maximum of 20 credits in a semester). Based on their performance or quantum of work done and the contents of the course or work, some credits may be transferred for similar courses or projects. Institutions with which IIIT-Delhi has arrangements or MOU or student exchange programs, transfer of credits may also be permitted. transfer of credits will be approved on a case-by-case basis by the DOAA and will be reported to the Senate. 
btech students are allowed to do extra credits" beyond 156 credits required for completion of btech requirement. For N extra credits done, the student will be allowed worst grades in N credits, with a maximum limit of at most 8 credits, to be not counted towards CGPA computation. The impact of this decision will be reviewed after two batches have graduated with this option. Following method will be used for calculating the CGPA: 
Method: The below method will automatically decide which extra credits will not be counted in CGPA: 
For CGPA computation at the end of 6th semester, baseline credits will be 116 (equal to 29 full courses including OC but excluding SG & CW). If a student has done N credits more than 116, then for CGPA computation the following will be done: 
- The worst grades in courses totaling M credits will be "removed", where M= min{8, N}. 
CGPA will be computed based on the remaining credits. It is to be noted that since OC’s are with S or X Grades, although OC’s are with S or X Grades will be included in baseline 116 credits, OC’s are with S or X Grades will not be counted in CGPA. For example, if a student has done 120 credits including OC of 4 credits, CGPA will be computed from best grades corresponding to 112 credits. 
For CGPA computation at the end of 7th semester, baseline credits will be 136 (including OC but excluding SG & CW). 
CGPA computation for Honors students at the end of 8th semester will done similar to a non-Honors student, i.e., a non-Honors student will be allowed to not-count worst grades of courses up to 8 credits. For example, if a student has done 164 credits (excluding SG or CW credits) including OC of 4 credits, CGPA will be computed from best grades corresponding to 152 credits. 
SGPA computation will remain the same for each semester. 
CGPA computation will remain the same for first 5 semesters, even if a student has done "extra credits." 
btech student, who has already completed B.Tech or B.Tech graduation requirement (including registration for a minimum of 8 semesters on campus), will be allowed to register for at most two extra courses to improve B.Tech or B.Tech CGPA. Registration after completion of 156 credits, required for graduation, will be allowed in only one extra semester. Further, registration of extra credits will be permitted provided he or B.Tech pays fees for that extra semester. Moreover, such students will not be considered for any award or medal. 
For continuing in the undergraduate program, the student has to show satisfactory academic performance as may be defined by the Senate from time to time. If the academic performance falls short, a student may be asked to repeat the first year, placed under warning, or a student or a student program may be terminated. 
A student will be put on probation at the end of the first semester, if A student or A student passes 2 or less technical courses (courses other than Communication Skills) in the first semester. For details about department wise technical and non-technical courses of first year, refer program-wise regulations. 
If a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the entire first year provided a student or a student did not take semester leave in any of the two semester, a student or a student program will be terminated. 
If a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the entire first year and was on leave in either of the two semesters, a student will have to repeat the first year, i.e., a student or she has to do first semester in the next academic year and will not be allowed to continue with the third semester. 
If a student passes 4 or 5 technical courses in the entire first year, a student or a student will have to repeat the year. Further, if a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the first semester, he or she will be allowed to take semester leave in the Semester 2 or can continue in Semester 2. However, in both the cases, a student has to follow rule 2 mentioned above. 
If a student repeating the first year fails in more than 1 technical courses in either semester of the repeat year, a student repeating the first year or a student repeating the first year program will be terminated. 
A student repeating the first year may be allowed transfer of credits only for the non- technical courses that A student repeating the first year or A student repeating the first year had passed in A student repeating the first year or A student repeating the first year previous attempt. 
Regular rules for backlog will apply for any courses he or she may have failed. 
A student shall be placed under academic warning or probation on the grounds of inadequate academic performance for one (subsequent) semester 
If he or she fails in any course in a semester 
If he or she gets an SGPA of 4.5 or less in a semester, or has a CGPA of 4.5 or less at the end of the semester. 
The following will apply to a student who is placed on a warning (academic as well as warning due to disciplinary reasons): 
The student will not be allowed to hold any elected or nominated post for any institute body including the hostel management, students’ activities, and student council. 
The student will not be allowed to participate in any event outside the Institute as member of the Institute team. 
No academic overload shall be permitted to such students. 
The students may be required by the DOAA to take an underload. 
The student will be required to sign an undertaking to agree and follow all stipulated conditions of warning. All such undertakings shall be countersigned by the parent or guardian of The student. 
If a student gets academic warning because of low SGPA (of <4.0) in two consecutive semesters and or or gets two or more F grades each in two consecutive semesters, a student or a student program will be terminated. 
A student is expected to attend all classes. For any absence of more than two days, A student should apply for and take a leave of absence. Penalty for students’ whose attendance falls below a threshold will be as decided by Senate from time to time, and communicated to students. 
A student may be allowed to take semester leave, with permission before the last date of add or drop, for any valid reason, as determined by UGC, including but not limited to ill health, internships, entrepreneurship, family requirements, etc. No semester leave will be granted after the last date of add or drop other than for the critical reasons such as ill health (In such cases, no fee refund is admissible if the student has registered for the semester which is converted to the semester leave later.) A student shall not be permitted more than four semester leaves in the entire program. Any circumstance leading to more than four semester leave or drop may result in the automatic termination of the entire program. This implies that a student has to necessarily be registered and physically be present on campus for 8 semesters during a student or a student degree program. 
If a student is absent from the Institute for more than 20 days in a semester due to medical or any other reason, this may be converted to a semester leave for that semester by DOAA. However, if a student represents IIIT-Delhi in some event, with prior permission of Dean of Students Affairs, absence due to this participation will not be counted. 
A student, whose program has been terminated, may appeal against the decision. All such appeals shall be made to the Senate within two weeks, and the decision of the Senate shall be final. Other academics related appeals may be made to UGC. 
Transfer of btech students from one program to the other is possible only after the grades of the first semester are out. This is the only time branch change will occur. A student must make an explicit request to be considered for program transfer within in a week from the date of announcement of results of the first semester. In A student or her request, A student can mention more than one program in the order of preference. Rules for program transfer are: 
Only the students who satisfy eligibility for a particular branch at the time of admission are eligible for transfer to that branch. 
Students admitted through AICTE need to produce NOC from AICTE if applying for transfer to another program. 
Students must have passed all credits specified for the first semester of the btech program. 
To be eligible for transfer to cse (CSE), csam (CSAM) or csd (CSD) program or csss (CSSS) program or csb (CSB) program, a student must have received a B or better grade in Introduction to Programming (IP) and Mathematics-I. 
To be eligible for transfer to Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) program, a student must have received a B or better grade in both Digital Circuits and Mathematics- I. 
Students eligible for program transfer will be ordered in a priority list based on CGPA and will be granted transfer in order as long as the strength of each program does not violate the following limits. 
The base strength of a program for a batch will be the number of students who were admitted and who are still enrolled in a program as on Dec 15 (after Sem 1) after completion of one semester, not counting those who were repeating the first year. (example Suppose 110 students were admitted in a batch and there were 8 repeaters. If 6 of the admitted students dropped out before Dec 15, then the base strength will be 110-6=104). The final strength of any program shall not reduce by more than 10% of The final strength of any program base strength. Also, The final strength of any program shall not increase by more than 10% of The final strength of any program base strength. 
Repeaters who are repeating first year are also allowed branch transfer under the above-mentioned rules. 
In case of a tie in CGPA of students, below tie breaking rules will be followed for deciding transfer from one branch to another 
Tie Breaking Rule I - For transfer to CSE, CSAM, CSD, CSSS and CSB branches, higher grade in the order of Introduction to Programming, Maths-I, System Management, Digital Circuits, Communication Skills 
Tie Breaking Rule II -Higher JEE Rank 
A btech student can opt to migrate to dual degree program of the institute immediately after the declaration of Semester 6 Results. A student once selected for Dual Degree may opt out from migration before the add or drop date of A student once selected for Dual Degree or A student once selected for Dual Degree 7th semester in A btech program provided A student once selected for Dual Degree or A student once selected for Dual Degree has not availed the Placement Service. Eligibility criteria and regulations for program are given separately. 
The minimum duration for completing the btech program is 8 semesters (excluding the semesters in which the student took semester leave or the repeated semester or year). The minimum number of credits for a btech program is 156 (including 2 credits each of SG and CW). The maximum duration within which the requirements must be completed is six years (12 semesters) (including the semester in which student took semester leave or the repeated semester or year). 
A student enrolled in a btech program is eligible for graduation if A student enrolled in a B.Tech or A student enrolled in a B.Tech: 
Fulfills all the academic requirements of the btech program in which he or she is enrolled, as given in the regulations for that program. 
Has completed a minimum of eight semesters in the program (excluding the semesters in which the student took semester leave or the semester or year he or she repeated). 
Paid all dues to the Institute and hostels. 
Has no disciplinary proceedings pending against him or her. 
A student who has completed all the graduation requirements may be recommended for award of the degree. 
A student enrolled in a btech program may also graduate with Honors, provided A student enrolled in a B.Tech completes all the additional requirements for Honors, as specified by the regulations for the program in which A student enrolled in a B.Tech or she is enrolled. all the additional requirements for Honors normally should include: 
The student earns at least 12 extra discipline credits. 
The student’s program includes a btech project. 
The student has a CGPA of 8.0 or more at graduation. 
A student enrolled in a btech program may also take a minor in some other area. Requirements for a minor in an area will be as stated in regulations for that minor. A student can graduate with a minor if A student or A student satisfies the requirements for A student or A student program as well as requirements for the minor. Requirement for each approved minor will be specified separately. 
The Senate recommends a student, who completes all graduation requirements, to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of degree in the convocation. 
Upon a satisfactory report from the Dean, Academic Affairs, the Academic Senate may recommend the award of the btech degree to the student. While pending the actual award of the degree in a regular convocation of the Institute, the doaa may authorize the Registrar to issue a provisional certificate to a student who completes the requirements for graduation. 
The date on the degree shall be as follows: 
May 21 for the students who finish their requirements during the winter semester (example 8th semester of btech) 
Aug 21 for those who finish the requirements during the summer term Dec 21 for those who finish the requirement during the Monsoon semester 
As mentioned in the Ordinances, under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements or use of dishonest means is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw an already awarded degree. 
In general, the convocation will be held in the second half of August. 
A student who has completed all graduation requirements after the latest Institute convocation will receive the degree in the upcoming convocation. 
Results of students who complete the degree requirements in December may be verified and put up to the Chairman. The Degree and the scroll of such students may then be signed by the Chairman, BoG. The approval so accorded by the Chairman, Senate may be reported to Senate for ratification in the due course. 
The academic senate of the institute will set up awards, prizes, medals etc. to be given to deserving students during students B.Tech degree including awards distributed at the time of Convocation. All approved student awards and prizes are listed along with All approved student awards and prizes selection criteria in the Awards Regulations 
Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the conditions of the awards or recognition or academic misconduct is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw the award and recognition. 
IIIT-Delhi maintains global academic standards in IIIT-Delhi own education system. Therefore, it does not tolerate any form of indiscipline or  academic dishonesty. Action will be taken against students found engaging in acts of indiscipline or  academic dishonesty by the Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC), constituted by the Director. Action may result in semester or year or two year drop or even expulsion from the Institute. Separate rules and regulations have been formulated to handle the cases of violations. 
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate has the right to modify any of the above regulations from time to time. 
