What is the normal load for second year students
If I fail a course and take it again in the later semester, will my earlier course with F grade be removed from the transcript
what is the process of registration?
how many seats are there in cse for admission?
what is the admission criteria for btech
I am in 1st year. Can I take overload?
I am in 2nd year. Can I take overload?
what happens if I miss the endsem because of a medical reason?
what happens if I fail a course?
what happens if I get an F grade in a course?
Can i take 8 credits of online courses in a semester
how many credits do i need to graduate
how is my semester graded
what if I do more than 156 credits in my btech course
How is sgpa calculated
formula for sgpa
what is the i grade
can I replace a core course on getting an F grade?
how can I get the grade given to me in a course changed?
how will my cgpa be computed if I do more than 156 credits?
is there any rule for attendance?
how can I apply for a semester leave?
how can I apply for branch transfer from cse to ece
what is the minimum credit requirement for graduation?
what are the requirements to get an honours degree?
what are the requirements to get an honors degree?
when is the convocation held?
when does the summer term start?
Who appoints the UGC committee
what is The term of UGC committee
who all is part of the ugc?
when does monsoon semester start
Who prepares academic calendar?
What is the reservation policy of IIITD?
How many seats are there for Delhi students
How many seats are available for non-delhi students?
How many seats are available for outside delhi students?
I have provided incorrect report card to IIITD while admission. Will my admission get cancelled?
can I extend my reporting date to the institute?
Can the senate cancel my admission?
admission process for foreign students
What are the different credits for courses at IIITD?
How do I get credits for a course?
What is the course workload for a 4 credit system
what is the expected workload for 2 credit courses?
does the college offer 1 credit courses?
What is the maximum number of credits that I can take in an online course?
Can i take 12 credits of online courses?
is pre-registration compulsory?
What happens if I fail to register before the beginning of the semester?
When does pre-registeration happen?
how can I drop a course?
policy regarding dropping of courses
Can I withdraw from a core course?
Can I drop a course in summer term?
What if I have a backlog in a course?
how much underload is permitted?
What exams will be conducted for 1 and 2 credit courses?
what is S grade?
What is X grade?
will an f grade be counted in the cgpa?
How can I change my grade in a subject?
can I repeat a course I passed?
how will my gpa be computed if I repeat a course?
when is the sgpa announced?
When is the grade of the courses announced?
I did not get my grades in ERP, but all the other students have received them. Can you tell me the reason for that?
why has my semester gpa been witheld?
how many credits are to be completed by the 6th semester?
What is the baseline credits for cgpa computation in 7th semester?
I have done more than 160 credits. How will my CGPA get calculated?
Is attendance necessary?
How many semester leaves can I take?
What can I do if my program has been terminated
What is DAC?
what if I am caught in plagiarism?
how is cgpa calculated?
when can I get an academic warning?
what is a minor?
when is the degree awarded?
who all are eligible for branch transfer?
how many credits are required for honors?
when does a student have to repeat a semester?
termination of program
how is cgpa computed at the end of 6th semester?
can I repeat a course I have passed?
